Cockpit 337 (#797)
cockpit-project/cockpit-project.github.io: _posts/2025-04-17-cockpit-337.md

---
title: Cockpit 337
author: jelle
date: '2025-04-17'
tags: cockpit, podman, files
slug: cockpit-337
category: release
summary: ''
---

Cockpit is the [modern Linux admin interface](https://cockpit-project.org/).
We release regularly.

> Here are the release notes from Cockpit 337, cockpit-podman 104, and cockpit-files 19:

Reviewer: Yes, should be added. Normally it wouldn't be mentioned when it doesn't have any release notes for itself, but this time there will be the common "Upgraded to PatternFly 6" for all of them. I'll add it.

On CentOS and Red Hat Enterprise Linux 10, the Software updates page now calls `dnf needs-restarting` to check if it is sufficient to restart systemd services instead of rebooting to fully apply the updates. CentOS/RHEL 9 does that with `tracer`, but this tool does not exist any more in CentOS/RHEL 10.

## podman: Link to services page for service containers

Containers which are created and controlled by systemd now have a link to services page where they can be restarted or stopped.

![screenshot of link to services page for service containers]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/337-podman-link-to-services-page-for-service-containers.png)

## Podman: Connect to other users which run containers

Administrators often set up unprivileged containers run by system users, to isolate them from one another. These system users typically don't have a password and thus one cannot log into Cockpit as a system user. On startup, Cockpit Podman now scans the system for all users which have running containers, and offers you to connect to their podman service. Note that you can only connect to one system user at a time, to avoid breaking the isolation.

> ![podman-multi-user-fs8]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/337-podman-connect-to-other-users-which-run-containers.png)

Reviewer 2: Thanks! Sounds mostly good. Only "run service ... on user account" sounds strange to me. "as system user"?

---
title: Cockpit 337
author: jelle
date: '2025-04-17'
tags: cockpit, podman, files, machines, ostree
slug: cockpit-337
category: release

> summary: ''

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
summary: 'Upgraded to PatternFly 6, software updates support needs-restarting, service links for podlet containers, multi-user support for rootless containers, symbolic link creation'
```

---

Cockpit is the [modern Linux admin interface](https://cockpit-project.org/).
We release regularly.

Here are the release notes from Cockpit 337, cockpit-podman 104,
cockpit-files 19, cockpit-machines 330, and cockpit-ostree 208:

> ## New Cockpit UI
> 
> We have overhauled our design which transitions the industrial look
> and feel to make the interface more friendly, all due to the newest
> major version of [Patternfly](https://www.patternfly.org/). With this
> we now have more rounded corners, fewer borders, more continuity, and
> most importantly a lot of bug fixes.
> 
> Cockpit and all plugins have had their UI overhauled as part of this
> release, which includes cockpit-files, cockpit-machines,
> cockpit-ostree, cockpit-podman, and cockpit-ostree. We've looked over
> it to make sure both light and dark themes work, as well as our
> accessibility is at the same usability as before, and are happy with
> the current state of the migration to publish it for everyone to use.
> 
> If you are a plugin developer, we [a
> guide](https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/discussions/21753)
> to ease your upgrade path over to Patternfly v6.
> 
> ![screenshot of Cockpit overview with new Patternfly design]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/337-cockpit-with-patternfly-v6-light-mode.png)

Reviewer 3: Rewrote it a bit, trying to keep all the same points:

```suggestion
## A fresh new style, upgraded to PatternFly 6

Cockpit features a refreshed style, thanks to the latest major version of [PatternFly](https://www.patternfly.org/). This update replaces the previous "industrial" look with a more modern "airy" design, featuring even more rounded corners, fewer borders, and improved visual consistency. This release also includes numerous UI-related bug fixes.

The visual changes apply to the core Cockpit interface and all official plugins (including cockpit-files, cockpit-machines, cockpit-podman, and cockpit-ostree). We have tested the new look in both light and dark styles, verified accessibility, and confirmed compatibility with right-to-left (RTL) languages. We are happy with the state of the migration and are ready to share it with everyone.

If you do encounter any issue, [please file a bug report to let us know](https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/issues/new?template=bug_report.yml)!

For plugin developers: We wrote [a guide for upgrading to PatternFly 6](https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/discussions/21753).

![screenshot of Cockpit overview with new Patternfly design]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/337-cockpit-with-patternfly-v6-light-mode.png)
```
